hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com
i'm your host dylan grabowski
this episode of the smart economy
podcast is part of the series focusing
on decentralized finance better known as
d5
in episode 3 of the defy series i chat
with scykeeper the founder of saffron
finance
saffron finance is a risk adjustment
protocol that distributes yields
according to liquidity deposits in
particular tranches
and offers an insurance fund that also
generates yields the protocol currently
operates on top of ethereum avalanche
kucoin community chain and plans to
launch on neo
in this conversation sy keeper and i
discuss his path into defy
the trade-offs of being an anonymous
founder
his outlook on defies opportunities and
constraints
preferences for building in bear markets
multi-asset tranching systems
using stablecoin yields for insurance
funds
how the team chooses blockchains to
support and much more
just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
financial advice
and that the host or guests may hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
shy keeper was the first anonymous guest
i've had on the show and i really
enjoyed chatting with him i hope you
enjoy the conversation too
today we are joined by
the anonymous founder of saffron
sigh keeper how are you doing doing
great dylan thanks for having me should
i call you psy or sidekeeper what do you
like to go by
i think smart economy podcast listeners
will right off the bat notice that
you're using a voice modulator could you
tell me a little bit about why you're
choosing to be anonymous in this space
and kind of the decisions that led you
down that path to
undertaking this because it's going to
be a full-time role to ensure that you
don't dox yourself
so why are you anonymous what were the
steps that got you there and
what are the considerations you always
have to keep in mind
when you're communicating online and
protecting your identity so when you
design a protocol you want it to be as
decentralized as possible i think the
anonymous founder
archetype is such that you can create
something that
eventually will be distributed
throughout the community
and you don't have a single figurehead
that's looked towards you know that
doesn't seek fame doesn't seek attention
and as an anonymous founder i have that
from the core of my belief system and
it's resonated through the software and
through the decisions that we make when
developing saffron for example
you know we don't have anyone who has
like a central point of failure that if
you say okay if you take away tim cook
from apple let's go on or you know if
you take away you know anyone who's uh
known as a big leader or like a powerful
leader in a one of their companies or
anything they're doing and they're gone
and it's totally over in this case you
know i'm just an anonymous person who's
coming to
the world with this idea developing it
you know kicking off a doubt maybe i'll
have an outsmith representation and an
outsized amount of effort in the very
beginning but over time this will reduce
and the dow should take on its own life
and the dow should replace you know this
will keep your entity with everyone else
who's doing work maybe you know dozens
hundreds of devs
eventually the protocols sustain itself
and it'll become big enough and it won't
need somebody to sort of lead it i think
in the very beginning it's important to
have play that role and i'm doing that
right now and i think defy still has a
really long time to go before you know
we can really take off the training
wheels and kind of just let it glide on
its own but to set the wheels in motion
i think you know this was the best at
the take also i've seen you know if you
start a project or you start something
with a real identity it becomes tied to
all the previous things
and all the previous baggage coming
along with that identity
and that's just not good because then
people will see the protocol code and
they'll conflate it with you know what
might be that person's background even
things like where they were born or
physical things about their location or
their person that other people make
assumptions about them
but none of that is actually relevant as
far as vertical operates so to be able
to get away from those biases and sort
of remove those influences from the
protocol and from the design of the
software i decided it would be best to
do this anonymously and it's had some
interesting effects
so the rest of the team also you know
most of them prefer to be anonymous but
them are docs you know some of them are
on camera making videos and like
yourself you know you're now part of
this
community you're on video like talking
about saffron and i think that's fine i
think eventually you know there is going
to be a mixture everyone wants to be
anonymous it is a lot of work like you
said uh you know there's a lot of
considerations that have to go into this
and one wrong move and everyone sucks
right so it's it's kind of difficult but
at the same time i think it leads to a
better outcome i'm a very strong
believer in philosophy behind code and i
think that the philosophy of an
anonymous team is different than one of
the docs team and it leads to different
outcomes and i think those positive
there are some trade-offs we can get
into the trade-offs but i do think that
overall it's more positive for a
decentralized system to start with
anonymous sounding yeah i agree and it's
kind of rare uh the longer we go post
bitcoin and like post monero you know
this ethos in the early days of
cryptocurrency was very much like uh
privacy
sovereign freedom and things of this
nature but as the industry just kind of
expands and grows
people want to have their names out
there and they want to be able to grow
with the protocol that they might have
created
so it seems like fewer and fewer teams
are choosing to be anonymous these days
so it's really interesting to be able to
pull your ear and hear a little bit
about this philosophy i guess before we
kind of like jump into the d5 part of
this episode maybe i want to ask you as
a devil's advocate what are the
potential considerations of like a
malicious actor who's choosing to be
anonymous like uh sifu for example who
had ties to quadriga which was an
exchange in canada that ended
unfavorably and then also you know these
ties to the om protocol where i'm not
going to say sifu was the reason why the
protocol failed but once his identity
was doxed there were a lot of questions
that surrounded it so
while you you have this opportunity to
not have baggage associated with
previous projects you've had what are
sort of the risks and ways to maybe
mitigate these risks for
potential
bad actors who are just operating under
a new identity yeah i think that that's
something that is
really unfortunate about being anonymous
founder i think that that trade-off that
i was talking about
the main one is
having the potential for abuse
of people's trust
so if you are a bad actor and you want
to hide what you're doing
probably being an anonymous founder or
an honest actor in space is your best
bet
i think that that over time becomes less
and less relevant especially if you
structure things in a way where there
isn't any trust involved of course it's
very difficult to have a completely
trustless system and i don't think any
system right now is completely trustless
maybe bitcoin to a certain extent
but
if you release the code in such a way
that there isn't any keys or there's no
um you know there's nothing
involved with decision making that needs
to be made by someone who is a bad actor
that is fine
the issue comes in when you have someone
who has a large amount of the token
holding that is doing something like
borrowing against it and then selling
sending the usdc to exchange and then
eventually it gets liquidated you know
these kind of sneaky moves that's
anonymous founders use to kind of
delay people finding out that they're
actually dumping without actually
dumping yet
those are the types of things that are
obfuscated and can be abused by
anonymous founders and obfuscated and
kind of hidden behind like the
blockchain record if no one's looking if
they're not going to see it so yeah that
is an unfortunate case i think people
just need to be more diligent i think
at the end of the day people could have
taken more responsibility to look into
the movement of tokens and seeing like
okay well there's way too much over
leveraged here and what are people doing
with the funds that they've borrowed
against their over leveraged coins
why is this happening on such a large
scale
you know it almost doesn't matter that
it was fifu taking these actions or team
members taking his actions anyone doing
that even if they aren't identified you
know that's definitely like the behavior
of a bad actor i think only after it
came out
that you know this was the person that
had done these other things in the past
was that relevance so i actually don't
think it's super
like it doesn't really follow that
anonymous founder is the one that would
be doing those things but i do think it
does help obfuscate of course in
security consideration obfuscation is
not really going to get you very far but
in many cases when timing is involved
practically it does make a difference so
i think we just need better due
diligence i think we need better
transparency and accountability for like
where token flows are going and i think
if you have a community like om or a
community like mim
where there are figureheads that are on
twitter that have thousands of and tens
of you know even hundreds of thousands
of followers where the protocol success
and trajectory depends on their cult
leader status that becomes i think an
issue
for the community because you'll see
something like tara for example where it
gets too big too quickly based on a meme
or based on and just like the growth
because it's so popular and not because
the protocol actually works right so you
can see that caused an issue we've seen
that very many times in the past so i
think like maybe ohm would have been
better off just growing organically they
had a great meme right they had a great
narrative and that people followed it
and they really liked the idea and i
think most people that got into it for
the fog beams or whatever eventually
found that they liked the protocol
but it wasn't actually providing so much
value you know i think all of d5 is down
across the board but especially the ones
that were super popular because they
they aimed really hard right that causes
an issue because now there's a
difference there's this irreconcilable
gap between the protocol's actual value
and its speculative value based on how
popular it is
anonymous founders could also be very
popular i don't think that that's
something that they are precluded from
doing
but i think the philosophy that i've
taken personally from my position is not
trying to become too popular just for
popularity's sake
there's always a middle ground between
getting the protocol out there marketing
and the actual code
but i think if you want things to be
valued at their fair market price
you should be focused on the code and
maybe focus on
how that's going to be generating
revenue for the holders
yeah that's uh fair insight it's also
kind of prescient that we get to
have this conversation on the heels of
the tara luna collapse and this is the
second time stable algo coin has
collapsed in
assuming that's what om was i'm not
superversed into the fundamentals and
mechanics of that project but to see two
major collapses in the past year both
projects that had like kind of a large
following around a figurehead
is just kind of
telling and um i guess maybe even
giving a little bit of credence to the
approach that you took with saffron so
before we jump into saffron is and what
makes it so unique and different
maybe you could just share a little bit
about why you decided to build in the d5
space you know there are so many
different areas in the cryptocurrency
realm these days
there's nfts there's d5 there's dows
there's
stable coins there's all these different
aspects and areas so could you just tell
um a little bit about the path of why
you went into the d5 pool for lack of
better words
and maybe just in general what is defy
to you and what does it represent
absolutely
so i became interested in d5 hearing
people talking about
you know lending and borrowing on chain
and i have a traditional finance
background and i've been following
some of the earlier kind of like d5
protocols like the chairs and also there
was a counterparty on bitcoin for a very
long time
but it really started taking off and
gaining tdl
and having people deposit and earning an
apr things like that started happening i
think early 2020 and that was all on
ethereum and you know i had an interest
in ethereum at the time i had an
interest in finance and fifa
and i saw it really gaining adoption
right and i think back in the day people
thought ethereum's
killer use case was going to be like a
prediction market and then people
thought like oh maybe it's just icos and
i didn't really think that those are
super interesting i think definitely
tokenizing it companies and assets on
chain is interesting icos not so much
just because of kind of like the way
that they evolved
but when i saw d files like wow i can
see how this can lead to profits for
people that are looking for alternative
investments but it's so risky because
there's so much potential for bugs and
there's much potential for price
fluctuation that we need to you know do
something
that mitigates those risks and gives
people that come from traditional
finance or even people that are just
regular people that want lower risk
don't necessarily want 20 percent 120
2000 epr they just want to have
something that's akin to a savings
account or akin to like the risk profile
of the savings account with the expected
returns maybe a little bit higher
because it's a newer opportunity and
there's more interesting stuff you can
do these are decent tries there's fewer
middlemen let's say right so it's a
potential for a gain and efficiency
overall and i thought that was really
interesting so yeah that's why i got
into d5 and
how that evolved at the saffron was from
my traditional experience i had seen
different deal structures i had seen
different investing structures that have
multiple different tranches and what
that basically means is there's usually
a higher risk at a lower risk
maybe even multiple tranches
where you have a different investment
profile and what that basically means is
in some cases if you know some credit is
bad you know there's bad credit in the
deal and you know you can't get money
out of certain sources
b is pay for tranches get paid back
first so in case of a default or in case
of any issues the lower return tranches
will get paid back first so they're more
insured but if there's no issue then you
know the higher return tranches they
took that extra risk they're getting the
extra reward so simply put with
tranching you can separate the different
return profiles from high and low risk
and those either get higher or lower
returns based on which one you choose
and that's more likely to be appealing
to certain types of investors so i
thought there's nothing in d5 that does
this well actually there was barn bridge
we ended up shipping before they did uh
which was interesting i didn't even know
it existed until after i launched and
people were like hey isn't this just
barnbridge
but anyway
so saffron v1 was that structure and we
even had you know chain link price
protection against bitcoin so you could
put you could start farming bitcoin and
if the price went down you'd actually
get a higher return than people who you
know didn't want to get that price
protection so very very interesting
things that you can do i saw a lot of
opportunity for new things that could be
built and i thought this is a place
where i can apply my skills and medicare
some people around me who you know i've
gathered to work on saffron with me
they're all interested in blockchain
tech kind of been working on blockchain
for a long time you know we all came
together and started making this app
that we thought was kind of like a void
in the market and would be helpful for
d5 yeah saffron has a really cool
tranching model that i do want to get
into in a little bit
but while we're still
so to say jumping out of the airplane
and the parachutes out and we're getting
we're still at the high 10 000 foot
level before we get into like the five
foot level of what saffron is i do just
kind of want to pull your ear on one
more broader topic around defy and you
kind of touched on this while you were
talking about why you built saffron but
maybe just from the perspective of
somebody who's so steeped in defy and
working in this day in and day out what
are some of the things that defy has
going for it right now and what are some
of the things that are really hurting
the broader
i guess you could call it asset class or
category of blockchain
but what does d5 have going forward and
have going against it right now the best
thing d5 has going for it is swaps i
think you swapped b3 uh you can see dan
robinson tweeting on twitter about how
eventually all swaps will be on ebay
swap i'm very bullish on different swap
types i like how we have now bancor v3
that was released a few days ago
different types of mechanisms for
swapping with different parameters
bancor for example has a permanent
losses protection which is a really a
big issue with being a liquidity
provider on these exchanges is that you
have this impermanent loss and in fact
the v3 is an improvement for large
traders because
you choose your exact parameters of a
permanent loss whereas v2 you're kind of
just
pulled in together with everybody else
but i'll spare you the technicals of my
opinions on those protocols overall i
think swaps are super important if
people want to trade let's say eth or
usd they can do that on chain they can
do it in the best way possible you know
we're kind of in a race for the bottom
situation right now where you have curve
that originally had like very low i
think it was like four or six basis
point trades right and they have this
like super efficient stable coins
topping algorithm which is based on sort
of like a constant product but uh has
like different parameters that make it
more
favorable for stopping stable coins so
you have lower price impact you know the
slippage isn't as bad i think all these
ideas are very cool and being innovated
on chain i don't even see them being
innovated anywhere else so that's really
awesome to see not only a decentralized
version of swapping but also different
types of decentralized swapping that
have different parameters and completely
different from what you would see on a
centralized exchange i think it's very
cool
you know you're given this kind of blank
slate especially with evolved smart
contract platforms where you can pretty
much program anything you want it's
completely different from the paradigm
of a centralized exchange and swapping
on a centralized exchange so i think
that that's super bullish for d5 ending
swaps probably the biggest thing is
where you're going to see the most
sustainable yields i mean where are you
gonna find a three-digit apr on e5 right
now right you're either gonna look
towards a really new coin and that's
emitting tons and tons of unsustainable
yields or you're going to look at a
really popular trading pair like
etheusdc which for the past few days has
been around 70 80 epr you know that's
huge
and i think if people are looking for
aprs and e5 if they're looking for a
sustainable yield if they're looking for
where the future is going i think that
swap platforms are going to just get
bigger and bigger especially you know
you see coinbase yesterday releasing
news that they're enabling defy access
right from the coinbase app what does
the coinbase have have like 100 million
users or something so all these people
are going to be on board into d5 they're
one click away from swapping on curve
they're one click away from swapping on
surgery swap the profit is there you
know the motivation is there everyone's
racing to the bottom when it comes to
fees i think people will eventually flow
their capital into those sections of d5
so yeah so super bullish on that the
biggest problem that d5 has right now
is twofold i think within crypto there's
so much attention on other things that
are just more profitable like
speculating on nfts or speculating on
our new l1 we're seeing where like all
the capital is going to flow that's
probably
secondary to the bigger thing that's a
problem for d5 which is macroeconomics
in the world i think the federal reserve
raising interest rates you're just going
to see people putting money into bonds
it really sucks to have to look at
macroeconomics every day and be like
bitcoins down so like i can't do
anything you know
uh that's really awful and it everyone
is like kind of subjected to this macro
economic cycle of bitcoin and if that's
going down because you know risk
investments and risk assets are just not
desirable at the time people are going
to offload stocks they're going to
offload bitcoin they're going to get
into cash and they're going to put it
into a long-term savings account because
they expect the rates to go up or
they're going to put into where they
think is more stable maybe even real
estate even though of course you know
raising rates is supposed to be bad for
real estate uh the real estate market is
just insane right now so there are so
many outside of crypto factors that are
so difficult for crypto at the moment
that makes it super hard and then also
you're seeing like tdl in these
protocols just going down over time and
that's a function of two things as a
function of again rates being higher
outside of d5 and also the fact that if
token prices are down
most of the time tdl is down and also
apr is down so it's a compounding effect
it's sort of like a that's parallel
effect i wouldn't say that it's the best
problem the way that it's going to go to
zero but it's definitely like a super
multiplying effect maybe even an
exponential effect if prices are down
yields are down tdl's down and it just
keeps going down from there so that's
the biggest challenge but again it's
cyclical i think there's going to be an
upswing later on you know i think it's
going to go down it's going to go up
bitcoin has been doing that for years i
think people are surprised to see that
quit down 60 from the high i'm not so
surprised
yeah i think that's the challenge for
sure that's a really
interesting point that you brought up
and something that i kind of wonder
myself that my day-to-day spent as a
content creator so despite the fact that
we cover
cryptocurrency
and that you know i feel the swings is
just like a general investor speculator
whatever you want to call it i'm not
actually out there building a dap that
has a token or building a d5 platform or
anything like that so i'm just curious
to hear a little bit about your insights
into what is morale like when the market
goes down and you see your tvl on your
platform
60 70 despite the fact that nothing
really changed from a few weeks ago
other than price of coin go down so how
does that
sort of market fluctuation impact your
team
being that you're so tied to the price
of a token and and the tokens that
people are swapping depends on which
team ever you're talking about
some of them are more uh invested in d5
others don't even really look at it
morale is a really interesting thing i
think our team morale is pretty high
personally i think we've done a really
good job building a team
i don't think that macro economic
outlooks
really affect team morale too much what
it does affect is
ease of which we can raise new capital
ease of which we can get new partners
ease of which we can like get on the
phone with somebody who's let's say an
institutional partner and that they want
to make a crypto app but it's like you
know who which one of their clients is
even going to use it so how can we you
know build new business and how can we
reach new users if all the people that
are thinking about getting into crypto
are not interested so from a tmrl
perspective yeah maybe i could do a
better job at that but i think that
we've done a pretty good job you know
it's a pretty interesting question i
didn't expect you to ask that i don't
think team morale is too affected by the
market definitely the community managers
have to deal with people on telegram you
know part of a decentralized app is
having a community on discord and
telegram and like some of them get
emotionally upset or some of them are
rationally offloading tokens during this
they want to reduce their risk and that
can be difficult for some of the
community managers or you know people
are involved with responding to those
those comments
but for the most part you know i think
it helps that i've been through this
many times and i'm kind of like guiding
the team through like okay it's just a
bear market like it's going to be fine
that we have plenty of runway you know
we're just going to build through it and
in fact one of the things i wanted to
say was it makes it easier for me to
focus because during the insane bull
market run there's so many people that
are just opportunists
and they don't really know what they're
doing or you know it's hard to weed out
like who's serious and who just wants to
make a quick profit so bear market's
always been really good for building i
think this has been trending on twitter
lately a lot and it was definitely
lasting the supermarket too
but it is true there's a lot less
distraction there are fewer distractions
there's more focus so actually you know
it's a pretty good thing for teams to
come together and be like look we're
fine we're going to build through this
we're going to come out with a product
the other day that people are going to
use maybe it's going to take a little
bit longer than we anticipated and we
should be honest about that but it's
definitely not something that's totally
killing the vibe i think we can continue
building through it and yeah i mean it
might be good for me to reconsider how
the rest of the team feels because i've
been through this before and maybe they
haven't so actually really great
feedback thank you for that dylan i
might take a second look at how the rest
of the team feels or maybe ask what they
think about the
bear market because
it could be affecting them differently
than me and i hadn't anticipated that
and morale is super important for the
team yeah this is uh if we are indeed in
a bear market slash recession whatever
you want to call it this will be
my second
full bear market i went full time with
neo news today
at the depths of the bottom of the last
bear in october 2018
so as a builder and someone who
communicates and covers builders these
are the best times ever because
you have direct access to founders
they're not being inundated by
pr firms or people out there trying to
make a quick buck you can more easily
interact with and connect with the
builders developers founders leaders all
of that so it's kind of a double-edged
sword during the bear market my my
pockets hurt but communication is never
better so it's always kind of
interesting to hear
how
market cycles may or may not impact
projects now we've been kind of chatting
for a long time about like bigger
philosophical market-wide approaches and
one of the reasons why i was really
excited to talk to you is because i
think that saffron is building something
that's really unique that i have not
seen in the crypto space but the last
time i did research or look into
tranches was unfortunately the credit
default swaps from the collapse of
a lot of different markets in 2007 2008
2009 so this is possibly the first time
that we get to examine the tranche
structure
in more of a positive manner so i guess
um while we jump into what saffron is
maybe you could just give us your
elevator pitch for what it is i know you
covered tranches a little bit earlier so
maybe if you could just give like your
basic 30 second overview of elevator
pitch so that people have a better
understanding as we go further down the
conversation yeah absolutely
saffron is a risk adjustment protocol
and a risk adjustment protocol will take
what could be seen as a risky investment
that has a high return and chop it up
into different buckets of investment so
you can have a bucket that's super safe
but gives you lower yield and on the
other side you have a bucket that's
super
risky and they're taking up more risk
and they're getting higher yield they
get paid for that
so in a decentralized way
you can essentially sell insurance to
a lower risk
bucket and
that profit is compounded as additional
yield with a higher risk bucket so
that's like the easy way to explain it
and what we're doing is basically making
this risk exchange where anyone can come
on
finance they can choose underlying yield
then they can choose a higher or lower
risk profile and then they get returned
based on that
so that's really interesting here is
that you can provide insurance or you
can provide that backstop to the lower
risk product by it offering it something
like a stablecoin as the backstop so if
you want to earn let's say there's you
know 300 apr on a platform but you have
to be farming with like and then like
another token how do you get exposure to
that yield with this fablecoin well you
can offer insurance in the stable coin
and then you get a percentage of the
yield that comes from whoever is taking
that price risk but your offer insurance
and stable coin is your stable coins are
farming on top of saffron which is
sitting on top of this platform and now
your stable clients are making let's say
280 percent apr
and you know takes a little bit of a cut
and the other tranche gets a little bit
of a cut but you've gained exposure to
that yield your oil compounding and
saffron will do all the auto compounding
it farms the yield it converts it into
stable coins
you're making a high yield on stable
coins you're taking a risk on this
platform but you're not taking price
risk on the underlying assets
so that's something that's really
interesting about saffron is that the
native result of this risk exchange is
the transformation of yield from these
risky assets to something like a stable
coin or the opposite right you can go
either way with anything you know the
parameters are adjustable so i think
that i like to say saffron is not only a
risk exchange but also a yield
transformer where you're taking like
risk on this platform and that might
have high risk asset yield but doesn't
necessarily have highest fable coin
yield you can provide insurance with a
stable coin and then you're getting
exposure to the risk of that platform
but if you're confident in it you know
if you could
put usbc into the platform and make 200
you probably would if you've reviewed
the code or you think it's like secure
or whatever other people might say hey
it's too risky for me i have some ether
i want to get some yield but
you know i'm not assured that i'm gonna
get my money back you know these guys
gonna run away with it so you're gonna
buy insurance and then insurance is also
insured and stable coins so even if the
asset goes down or whatever you're
totally covered i think that that's
probably the best way to explain saffron
really quickly is that you know by
offering this insurance product by
offering this field swap product a lot
of interesting things come from that so
it's it's a bit more complex than just
saying i'm gonna lp into a higher risk
tranche which i'm accepting the fact
that if there's a mass liquidation event
this is the first tranche to go there's
more complexity that's added into it
with the stable coin insurance fund
that's correct so in saffron v2 we added
the concept of multiple tranches and v1
we had a plan for that but we only had
seen earned junior tranche which was low
and high risk in central front v2
our current pools are able to do three
different tranches uh and the tranches
can be
whatever they're totally open-ended the
code is much more flexible and what
we've done is you know for our first
pools for launching
meteor charge pools with an insurance
fund so you can have a senior tranche
and a junior tranche which is like
higher risk let's say you're farming neo
and then you have like a eos in your
tranche and neo junior charge and then
you have like a usbc insurance
that's possible from v2 in fact our
white paper takes into account the three
tranche system in pretty much the whole
thing but
you can remove one of the tranches you
can add a fourth trance it doesn't
change anything it's really just a
matter of like how many different levels
of risk you want and which assets
they're priced in and then yeah if you
look at the white paper and like you get
rid of the junior trunks that's
basically what we have live now so
there's a lot of different ways that
this can be applied and yeah you could
do the same asset for every tranche you
could have different aspects of
different tranches and that just changes
the risk profile of each charge
depending on what the users want we
thought that it would be interesting to
sort of do this like uh
this multi-asset charging system and it
seems to be working pretty well and i
personally like it i think it's
interesting yeah so it seems like uh not
to like call you out or anything but it
seems like you're slowly adding pools
over time so what are kind of the
criteria for the pools that you add to
saffron yeah i think the biggest
challenge in the past and even the
current version of e2 is that we really
don't want to release anything that's
not fully audited and really secure so
yeah one of the challenges that we've
had is just releasing code very quickly
because you know when it comes to
releasing a product that's supposed to
be low risk
if we don't get enough audits if we
don't spend enough the code that there
happens to be a bug it defeats the
entire purpose so we've been super
careful to make sure that everything it
works and everything is like totally
audited and 100 secure to the best of
our ability right and we're trying to
increase that ability in the future so
yeah i think that the biggest thing is
being able to release the next version
of saffron v2 which has let's say
a more repeatable structure so that it
doesn't have to be re-audited every time
there's a new pool to a certain extent
we have to deal with the fact that
connecting to other pieces of code
changes the code a little bit and we are
going to have to undergo some audits but
making something that's super repeatable
is kind of like the next thing our
agenda and it'll make having a product
that isn't able to launch new pools
without having new audits a possibility
so that's what we're looking towards
next
and definitely you know feel the
community's frustration and criticism
when it comes to launching new pools
quickly i think that had we anticipated
this to take so long we would have done
it a little bit differently a year ago
but yeah we're on the right path to
making sure that there are pools that
are going to be audited and released
more quickly that's kind of like our
main priority right now i hope it didn't
come off as uh throwing salt in an
existing wound right now i personally
don't
think that adding pools too slow is an
issue when the team is really taking
security first and it sounds like this
is one of those instances where it's
maybe three steps back and then five
steps forward in terms of the
scalability for new lps you'll be able
to provide and i'm sure that connecting
to new chains actually
increases the complexity behind this
so saffron doesn't just operate on top
of ethereum but you guys are also
porting to neo i believe i saw that
you guys are operating on top of the
kucoin community chain now
so there's got to be
a lot of nuances that come not only with
adding new lp contracts but then also
chains so that kind of
brings me to an interesting topic that
you were just talking about with the
insurance fund and you mentioned
being able to say for instance trade neo
and an lp but you mentioned the usd
insurance fund so is saffron creating a
multi-chain insurance fund as well where
i can potentially lp on the kucoin chain
or on the neo chain and then receive or
participate in the benefits of usdc
insurance from like the erc20 usdc that
is something that we've
really expensively looked into and
actually this comes from an insight from
an investor in ours
that wanted to get bitcoin yield and at
the time we were designing the product
around i think it was pangolin which had
a pretty good bitcoin yield on it
but when we went through step by step
with them how this process would work we
realized that there's a risk that a lot
of people take for granted or isn't
really something that people are looking
closely at which is the bridge risk and
of course bridges have failed in the
past
but from an institutional's perspective
they're just thinking all right well i'm
buying bitcoin and i'm giving it to
these guys and they're going to get
yield on it
but the actuality of the matter is if we
wanted to get the highest yields we'd
have to you know buy wrapped bitcoin on
ethereum and then transfer it to another
chain and then farm on that chain but
the problem is what if the bridge goes
down and i don't even think there is
even another insurance protocol on chain
right now that has bridge insurance it's
just too risky
so
that is a good question do we want to do
this yes what are the challenges so
one of the big challenges with having a
multi-chain farming is that how do you
pass information back and forth between
chains i think chain link is probably
the best way
think about doing this going forward if
you have chain link oracles on every
chain they can potentially pass
information from one chain to another
and then we would be able to create some
sort of farming system that let's say
assures like a neo farm with a usdc on
ethereum erc20 token that could be
possible it's going to require chain
link working on neo it's going to
require chain link working on the
ethereum and some sort of way to pass
messages between them programmatically
there could be a way to do it with a dow
structure where you have like multiple
signers doing you know peace finding and
then there's like an insurance process
that happens that the dow was like
triggered and humans do the work that
they're paid to do the work of
processing those doubt you know requests
basically i don't know how well that
scales i think other d5 insurance
platforms on ethereum and all other
chains have a problem when it comes to
paying out scalable or being able to
scale into paying out multiple different
claims i think something handles this
really well by giving everyone like an
lp token share of a pool that gets you
know adjusted in value based on the
outcome and everyone just gets paid out
immediately but yeah there are many ways
just gonna i think there's
certainly a lot of opportunity for us to
do multi-chain farming and multi-chain
insurance
i think it's a little bit early to do
that we're going to need a more robust
oracle structure message passing
structure there are some chains
themselves that have these power chains
or like sub chains
where you have like cross-chain
interoperability and cross-chain message
passing that's kind of like a
requirement from a textual perspective
how this would get done i haven't seen
anything that works really well there
aren't really any good examples of that
maybe we can be the first ones to look
into it it's definitely something on our
radar because it's right up the alley of
south risk adjustment it makes total
sense right bridges are failing all the
time even other chains are failing and
it would be good and beneficial for our
users to have crosstreat farming so yeah
i think there are just a few things that
are required for that to work and i was
even thinking you know maybe we could
build our own but it's too big of a
project you know let chain link do it or
another you know oracle provider do it
and see if we can pay you back on top of
that and use it when it's ready so would
you say that saffron offers farming on
different chains not necessarily that
it's a cross-chain farming platform yeah
that's right for now for now yes so i'm
curious to hear a little bit about the
insight that you and your team have when
you're exploring new chains to build on
top of
i have been covering neo since 2018 but
it's interesting to see
an ethereum ecosystem born defy project
expanding on
neo or exploring neo first so what are
kind of the metrics that your team looks
for when looking to build or expand onto
new networks so i think the reason that
we got interested in eos specifically
and other networks comes from the fact
that
when we were into bitcoin early on we
were trying to explore and do different
things with blockchain technology
and just a little bit of history you
know bitcoin maximalism is not a new
thing bitcoin maximalists have existed
since bitcoin was pretty much the only
thing in fact i remember going to like
bitcoin meetups or you know very early
on when people are interested in bitcoin
in like 2012 and 2013 or meeting about
in real life
and if you talked about anything outside
of just bitcoin you would be literally
laughed at in fact i was at a
presentation where the guys from ripple
their presentation and they were laughed
out of the room and
i think they were giving like 10 000 xrp
everyone free there and he ended up not
doing it like it was a cliche but
literally the dude got left out of the
room so
you know people were not exploring
different things or they were resistant
to exploring different things early on
in bitcoin's history and i saw that and
i saw it as kind of a missed opportunity
for people that just were kind of
close-minded or hyper focused on bitcoin
i think bitcoin's great i think putting
effort towards it is great but i don't
discourage people from exploring what
other opportunities there are in
blockchain and i think when you look at
it in a holistic approach you have to
see that there are different chains they
have different priorities they have
different parameters they have different
features and all of them are interesting
in their own ways so for neo for example
you know we can write in c sharp
something that our team is really good
at and it's something that's unique for
neo there are a few other chains that
give you like a bunch of different
languages you can write in but
specifically you know enterprise
software people that have been writing
enterprise software or been doing you
know professional c sharp writing in the
past you know that's going to be a
natural thing for them to get into and
build
so i really like that and i really liked
how you know we could quickly get a team
member who is interested in that
on board and doing that very quickly so
that was one of the reasons we looked
into eo you know one of the reasons we
looked at kcc was we saw this is a
really small and new project and people
are going to want insurance to get into
these d5 platforms because it's too new
you know they're going to think well
some of them are going to fail whatever
and we did the same thing with um with
harmony we actually had saffron running
on this thing called holy which was a
contract that had around three thousand
percent apr and actually failed and we
ended up using the insurance system
people back a lot of people know this i
think there was like maybe 10 15 people
farming on the experimental pool but it
was the first time it was actually used
to pay people back based on an
underlying contract that failed so you
know these things actually do happen and
these high apr scenarios they come
around and you know sometimes those
contracts have bugs and you know if
you're in the senior trance you're in
luck so that's kind of like
how we handle the situation and how we
look at things we think there's new
opportunities there's different
opportunities and teacher sets there's a
lot that can be offered by different
chains you know we're not bitcoin
maximalists we're not really edf
maximalists we think that d5 as a whole
could use the risk adjustment platform
and that's what we're trying to provide
so are you guys focusing on
expanding beyond
just evm are you specifically looking
for other vms as well so you can kind of
build out your portfolio
what are you going to look for in the
next chain that you guys add support for
practically it comes down to tdl right
in apr if there's a big amount of tdl
and we can bring
a good amount of risk insurance and risk
adjustment into that chain that's what
we're going to aim and try to fire it
comes down to the practical use case of
sometimes you know we have our own
resources right we can be speculative
and try to predict where the market's
going to move so it's not like we're
always going to lag behind and try to
follow what everyone else is doing
i think a lot of cases we've done that
but it's really difficult right so
there's a balance between going where
the obvious capital is going and trying
to follow it and then there's more
opportunity and taking a more risky
approach which is like all right there's
nothing here yet and if we build the
first thing we'll have a first mover
damage i think that a little bit of both
is definitely the middle ground where
you need to kind of operate them
absolutely i want to talk about the sfi
token uh you have an interesting supply
cap of 100 000
how did the team land on that number i
had seen a few other projects in d5 like
urine was doing like super lows of my
cap and this is one of those things
where unit bias comes into account right
some people will think like wow it's up
to a hundred thousand dollars you know
it must be super crazy like it's so
crazy it's worth more than bitcoin and
then that kind of like gets the headline
this is purely a marketing thing i think
mathematically it works out the same
either way i kind of liked it it was
easy for me to grok what was happening
it investors one percent they had one
thousand right hundred thousand so it
was pretty arbitrary i would say but i
kind of liked the lower supply
especially because we went with
liquidity mining and that was kind of
having every two weeks sort of like
bitcoin as a having i wanted that
scarcity to be like a property that sfi
has
so yeah we went with a lower supply cap
to make it look
more like a scarce token so that people
would get the idea from the very
beginning like okay we're not inflating
forever i think there are some protocols
that can play forever so we're doing the
opposite right and that was kind of the
idea behind why a low supply cap was
chosen
it doesn't really make sense if you
really think about it but that idea was
kind of like what we were trying to
communicate and i think it effectively
communicates it even if it is kind of
like a nonsense metric i mean
this industry is so nascent that you
never know what the one thing is that
kind of makes you stand out is gonna be
so there's no reason not to experiment
are you guys planning on having sfi
live only on ethereum are you gonna have
a standard on neo and on kcc what is the
plan for that
and if you do go cross chain what's the
plan for uh monitoring the whole 100 000
supply across multiple chains yeah i
think this is something that almost
every project has to deal with actually
just last week our avalanche bridge went
live so we're now this guy's been live
on avalanche just very cool right we're
on kcc through the qcc bridge it's a
risk
this is not really well known but when
we went live on phantom network there
was a bug in the bridge code and there
was like an infinite on phantom of sfi
so actually right now if you go to the
phantom explorer and look at a spy it's
not great there's like trillions and
trillions of smi we ended up paying
everyone back and it wasn't really
agreeable i think it was like sixty
thousand dollars the best if i were lost
or something at the time everyone was
made whole so yeah we shut down very
quickly but when we were on multi-chain
other early days that was when bridges
were brand new so these bugs are to be
expected
it's difficult right you never know when
you're going to get a telegram message
at 4am that's like hey everything is
totally rude so that's just kind of like
part of d5 it's part of the reason we
exist because it's risky but i think
yeah we we have to just make our choices
and select things carefully make sure
that we choose the right bridges make
sure the bridges work and have like a
contingency plan for when a bridge fails
or when there's like there's now two
hundred thousand is to buy because the
bridge fails what do we do that's the
risk we're taking the industry as a
whole i believe is taking the position
that bridges are worth the risk
and i think that that's a
fairly rational position to take so is
it safe to assume that every chain that
saffron operates on top of there's going
to be an sfi standard on that chain yes
i think that that's a good idea
it's not necessary actually
because we could
take the funds that are generated on
other chains through the saffron app
flip them back to e and then that gives
you know the smi token on each value uh
we don't need sfi to exist with chains
to launch saffron on another chain great
question by the way that no one's ever
asked me that but technically there is a
separation between the app and the token
as far as other chains go when it comes
to ethereum we've decided just to make
it easy and because most governance of
activity is on
ethereum the smi token and its value
accrual will happen on ethereum but for
other chains like let's say we launched
this fine video we don't need a smi
token on neo to do that right we could
just launch saffron.finance click on neo
on the chain selector now you're
connected to the neo network you're
farming on flamingo or whatever it might
be
those you know 12.5 percent of the
profits as a protocol fee go back to
saffron but we don't necessarily need
the s5 token on eo to do that so it's
very modular you know it might even be a
good idea to launch saffron on some
chains without the token bridge in case
we think that you know the bridges
aren't good enough or the chain might go
down and then you have like you know
twelve thousand is either stuck or
burned forever whereas if we just
launched the app then it's like okay
well you know the app is there but now
the tokens are there so yeah it's not
really like a permanent loss first
another reason cross-chain farming might
come into play by the way is that you
know we launched on a super risky chain
and like all the insurance is on ether
all the insurance on neo or another
chain then we don't have to have any of
the capital at risk everyone's covered
and you know the junior tranche takes
that extra risk for their profit
right now the
saffron platform allows for lps on kcc
and lps through some uniswap and sushi
swap lps but there's also single-sided
staking so what is the single-sided
stakers benefit
for staking sfi and what is that being
used for for the saffron platform that
that staked sfi right now that state
testify that pool is simply a rewards
pool
it's just a thank you to users that have
been holding token and it's something
that draws people to the main page of
the app
i think it's the number one question we
get from retail
investors you know people that come into
telegram they're like where can i take
my supply i want to
so we try to give them that as often
right now it's not even from admissions
it's just from our own team like
personal share that's been hinted
through the team while in the past we
stopped minting i think
over a year ago so nobody has advised
him and said i think we're at 92 000
something like that at 100 000. so
because you know macro conditions have
been going down we're just not minting
and we're just using the existing sfi
that we have to pay out i think it's
like a seven percent apr
in the future you know when we have
serious protocol revenue estified
buybacks or something that could be
voted on i don't want to make any
promises obviously for liability reasons
but you've seen other d5 protocols vote
on things like buybacks things like
burning whatever personally i'm a fan of
like buyback and lock so we could like
for example change that emitting sfi
pool that's just like a seven percent
faking pool into emitting locked sfi
that comes from protocol buybacks that's
a possibility there's
millions of different ways that we can
do it but i think once the protocol has
like serious revenue then we can make a
good decision and you know the community
will decide i probably won't even vote i
haven't voted on the last few votes
although you know i have an opinion on
what should happen in endow i've been
trying to kind of stay away from voting
just to see what other people think
about what should happen so this is one
of those situations where i feel like
maybe i'll write a proposal or i'll help
write the proposal it can go online and
then it's like what do we do at staking
the community will decide yeah we'll do
this with it we'll do that with it maybe
they'll shut it off in fact even
compound had a vote i posted in their
thread actually i think it was like
three weeks ago you know should we shut
off competitions and it was pretty
contentious and almost now the wire they
ended up not shutting down competitions
they were going to
so yeah i mean it's possible that that
goes to zero or totally just gets
deleted eventually yeah i think single
speaking just because people are they
like it and it keeps them interested
you know i don't think it should go
anywhere i wouldn't vote to make it go
down to zero i think you would want to
see emissions go down to zero but you
definitely don't want to see speaking go
down to zero that's my opinion yeah for
certain market participants
participating on
eth-based amms might be cost prohibitive
because they weren't early enough to
get eath when it was cheap and
so now you know these .003 each fees
turn out to be seven or eight dollars
that means a lot to a newer market
participant so
to be able to single-side stake sfi it
was kind of like a no-brainer for me
just because i didn't want to have to
research what the other lps were so it
was interesting to hear a little bit
more about the emission schedule and
that it's uh
some of the rewards are actually taken
from the team's wallet
so
i guess wrapping up i did want to ask
you this question because
it's just really interesting to me
you're anonymous
and also at the same time saffron has
institutional partners like coinbase
ventures and dragonfly capital
so
how do these conversations go down when
you're meeting with vcs and and big
capital firms
are they
used to dealing with anonymous founders
are there extra hoops you find yourself
having to jump through to
prove your non-malicious intentions what
is that like it's pretty simple
most of them don't care and are cool
with it and don't even ask
some of them at the end of the
conversation we have a whole
conversation for weeks days whatever
they're just like hey by the way you
have to sign this paper with your real
name and it's not going to be sent to
anyone outside of me and like illegal
and you know i've in the past said no to
that and in the past 50 years to some of
them so yeah i would say suit anonymous
is really a better way to describe my
identity i think there are other student
anonymous founders in d5
not going to name any names
some entities will just operate under an
anonymous structure and they're totally
cool with that and even the bigger ones
actually you'd be surprised or very
tolerant of
that type of thing
and some of them just like when it comes
down to the wire they have to answer to
an auditor they have to answer to some
legal structure or accountability
structure that they have set up
internally you know maybe external
pressures i would say it's about half
and half so yeah interesting question
and i think everyone in e5
is kind of super anonymous you know
you're really only getting into the real
and non guys
where you're talking about like monero
or like any of these like standalone
alpha ones i think d5 for the most part
is student anonymous it's a pretty
tight-knit group even some of the more
more and non-quote-unquote founders
there are people that know who they are
so it kind of is like i said the very
beginning more of this philosophical
thing than it is like a protect my
identity because we're doing something
wrong thing
so
at the end of the day it isn't so
important to maintain full amount of
anonymity as it would be if you were
like launching monero for example so i
think like
building a protocol that eventually
becomes super adopted and super
decentralized uh comes from that like
pseudonymous foundation i think it's
like super advantageous awesome and uh
last question granted that we're on the
smart economy podcast
what does the smart economy mean to you
it means everyone's able to use the
economy on their smartphone everyone's
able to use it and it is interested in
the economy hasn't stayed in the economy
without having to go through this
of banking structure and like all the
requirements and
leaking and that comes from that right
so there's a lot of value being lost
there's a lot of barriers to entry
people are left out of the economy
they're not gaining as much value from
financial institutions i'm into d5
because i like to build to fight against
that structure to make sure that people
have value that they can save value that
they can gain value without having
someone like hey i'm gonna get a cut of
that or like oh your account's overdrawn
like here's
any of this nonsense it should be
transparent it should be fair it should
be equitable to everybody we all have
smartphones we're all able to get on the
economy everyone should be using these
things i think that the old structures
are eventually going to crumble and i
think that we're going to be here to
build what comes after that it makes
things fairer more equitable to
everybody awesome what a great way to
end a great interview it was super cool
to finally be able to hop on a call with
you and talk about saffron it's been
a pleasure to follow the project since
it splashed into the neo ecosystem and
it's been fun to use the platform and
i can't wait to use it on multiple
chains moving forward
and
looking forward to the next version of
version two so thank you so much psy for
coming to join the smart economy podcast
it was a great conversation and i really
appreciate the time you had to share
with us today thanks dylan was awesome
great to speak to you cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation
it was really interesting to dig into sy
keeper's philosophy for building
insurance protocols in the defy space
which is rooted in the fact that users
should be able to choose a risk profile
when participating in d5 platforms
also in a bittersweet sort of way
it was kind of refreshing to hear that
the insurance fund successfully paid out
participants in the liquidity pool that
went to zero
and whilst i mentioned macroeconomic
trends and speculative actions as
negatives for the d5 space as a whole
he also seemed very excited about the
future and potential that swapping can
offer retail users
with that
i want to thank you so much for taking
the time to listen to the smart economy
podcast
if you liked what you heard and want to
support the show
please keep mio news today in mind when
voting for your neo council
representative as part of neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time
[Music]